巫师财经文章


Hi guys it’s Nef here. I’ve been scrolling through the comment sections from Xigua Video and TikTok. despite those “essays”, I found that you guys have invented some new tricks, so I feel like i have to share some of those sometime, just publicly exposing some of u geniuses so I wouldn’t be the only one laughing.

So, I’ve been staying at home since Beijing was under quarantine again then I thought I’d do a homemade video. Since I just happened to be helping a former investor working on a project that involves foreign affairs, which is profoundly influenced by the global pandemic. In such situation, governments were forced to make choices between people's lives and the economy.

In this episode I will take their decision making as a thread to discuss the economic layout of this post-pandemic world, where both opportunities and challenges exist. China is becoming a bigger part of the picture, for which its industrial chain and Chinese commodities are becoming more influential. I will also discuss some interesting changes happening in a number of industries and how they affect ordinary citizens. The reason the title is named “Reboot” is not only referring to the global economy, but also the restart of myself in ByteDance.

Looking at what’s been going on in the first half of 2020. People are definitely going to make documentaries about it in years to come. Nevertheless, this year’s recession is already inevitable, and most institutions are pessimistic according to the chart. The UN, the World Bank and researchers from international large sellers have all significantly lowered their global GDP growth forecasts. The world economy will also face a new normal: Pandemic vs economy will keep the balance swinging constantly one side is the demand for going back to work and rebooting the economy, the other side is the risk of another outbreak. There's also a hidden conversation about political issues and the possible public outcry. So, all the governments are carefully balancing the both sides, because it’s almost impossible to take over one side without losing the other side. for the time to come, this Push and pull will be normalized.

According to official data, the outbreaks in different part of the world have gone on various directions. I will skip China for we have witnessed how our government's capability of handling such situation; Japan and Korea were doing just fine on preventions which basically got the virus under control. However, the Europeans, despite their effort at the start, have taken a slope down since. As for the Americans , the number of new cases in the United States seemed to be less last month, but freedom has cost their numbers growing at about 40k per day. In the meantime, the numbers are growing fast in Brazil, India and Russia, new cases are appearing every day.

If you take the left side of the scale as fighting the epidemic and the right side as rebooting the economy, European countries were leaning towards the left, but this choice has cost them the time for the pandemic to spread to the point where society had to be stopped to slow down the outbreak. Then it wasn't until late May or early June that work began to resume substantially. From March to May, when the epidemic hit the hardest, unemployment rate soared in Germany, Spain and other major European countries according to chart, EU’s unemployment rate under age 25 hit 15.2% and UK was the worst among them all: the unemployment rate has more than doubled in the past two months, In order to keep the balance on the left side, the right side was already placed in jeopardy. Despite the employment crisis (pay attention to the highlight), Eurozone manufacturing and service industries have deteriorated more than that of the 2008 global financial crisis, Eurozone industrial production index also fell by 15% year-on-year. However, recent manufacture industry and service industry PMI has rebounded. Although it was still far from 50, which is the threshold separating contraction from expansion, but it's a turning point anyway. In addition to the effort of work resumption, stimulus policies also helped; The European Central Bank released an emergency asset purchase plan of 750 billion euros on March 18. In May, the emergency asset purchase plan was expanded to 1.35 trillion euros. Since then, liquidity was released through various tools. It can be seen from the graph: ECB's balance sheet expanded significantly. Despite the loud noises made, little has actually been done when compared to other places. The reason was simple—Insufficient space for fiscal operations. As can be seen from the figure, the debts of the major countries in the euro area were high. The data of Greece and Italy was even more stunning. Under the shadow of sovereign default and the lessons learned from the previous European debt crisis. These countries just could not let it go. The operations themselves were more important than the results, the main quest was to release confidence to the market, and the answer is pretty much mission impossible "we are working on it.”

It’s even more awkward for Japan and South Korea. Between them it's "for better or worse", then the worse part happened. Everything was done to prevent the spreading of epidemic. Japan also firmly chose the left side of the scale. The ban was not lifted until the end of May, and the suspension was lifted in mid-June. South Korea also lifted the ban and resumed work in May. What differed Japan and South Korea from other countries was the dependence on external demand in the economic structure. As the global epidemic continued to deteriorate, the number of “debuff” layers in Japan and South Korea's economy remained high. As you can see from the picture, Japan and South Korea's latest industrial production index fell by 9.1% and 3.4% year-on-year, and the turning point has not yet appeared. Now let’s look at employment. Japan and South Korea's unemployment rate has also risen to recent highs. Since the left side of the balance was chosen, bleeding on the right side was also inevitable. Japan used really strong painkiller to cure the wound. As of mid-June, the total size of the Japanese government’s anti-epidemic spending reached a staggering 234 trillion yen. That was about 40% of Japan's GDP. Our old friend, Haruhiko Kuroda, the current Governor of the Bank of Japan also said that, "the central bank’s crisis response tool, the basket currency, will be postponed until next March, and the measure will be further escalated if necessary. Meanwhile, as of mid-June. South Korea has announced the economic stimulus plan for three times. A series of stimulus measures accounted for about 14% of GDP. Compared to South Korea and Europe, Japan’s stimulus plan was even more ruthless to cope with the desperate situation.

The United States was a little more subtle about this choice. Although Chuan Jianguo(Donald J. Trump) wavered between the two sides of the scale, but the weight was obviously tilting toward the right side. When the outbreak was still raging through the street. The Americans were already encouraged to go back to their job. Factors such as resumption of work plus the large-scale demonstrations have caused recurrence of outbreaks in multiple states. The epidemic data also wobbled vehemently. The majority of the re-emerged outbreaks happened in the states that resumed work during April 20-30, on the contrary, pandemic in states which resumed work from May 1 to May 20 was better control. At that time, the outbreak seemed to be under control. Yet, when I was about to finish the video, America was once again under severe condition. On June 24, the number of newly diagnosed cases increased to 38,000 cases, and on the 26th, the newly confirmed diagnosis soared to a record of 45,000 cases. According to the latest data, the industrial production index fell by 10% year-on-year. The unemployment rate also soared from 4.4% to 14.7% in April, but the United States continued to tilt its heart to the right side of the balance. For them, the economy was way more important than the epidemic prevention. With the urgent return to work, the unemployment rate of May started to take a favorable turn and dropped to 13.3%. As can be seen from this picture, although the number of request for unemployment benefits was still high, the number of people asking for unemployment compensation has dropped for 10 consecutive weeks. Let’s look at consumer confidence now. As of the time I wrote the script, the index was 78.9, and the obvious turning point can be seen from the figure. The improvement in US economic performance also came from its stimulus policies. On March 27, the United States passed the CARES Act with a scale of more than 2 trillion. The volume exceeded the total of the three stimulus packages of the 2008 subprime mortgage crisis. Meanwhile, on April 4th, The Federal Reserve System provided the market with a 2.3 trillion credit package. It involved a lot of means and areas which were both complex and trivial. The liquidity transportation using different means can be seen in this picture. Pay attention to the distinction, “CARES” launched on March 27 was fiscal policy, and the 2.3 trillion released on April 9 was monetary policy. This simply means that the fiscal policy was directly giving out money and the monetary policy tried everything to give out money. The CARES Act was introduced directly to individuals and businesses caught in deep water. This was more direct and extensive than monetary policy releasing liquidity through the financial system. After the launch of CARES, it can be seen from the figure that the U.S. debt balance has soared up. The GDP ratio was also far above 100 %. Moreover, after the Fed carried out the monetary policy, take a look at the far right of the picture. In just 28 days, the balance sheet increased by 1.6 trillion US dollars. The story behind this was simple in just one line: The United States prints the money and the rest of the world pays. In the future, we can combine the subprime mortgage crisis in 2008 to talk about how the US takes advantage from rest of the world. The United States is currently doing a better job on the right side of the scale. America might not be falling yet. When the US chose to value their economy, the left side must have consequences when the other side was chosen. The cost was human lives; The number of new cases every day that has suddenly increased from 20,000 to more than 40,000. American freedom so to speak. After all, you can inject disinfectant to kill corona virus, right?

The most intriguing part is here. Let me take you through two emerging economies, India and Brazil. They both chose left over the right side of the scale. Due to their incapability, the left side also collapsed. Since the lockdown from March 25. India's April industrial production index and service industry PMI fell to pieces and dropped by 50%. At the end of April, India could not sit still. From the first day of May, production activities in agriculture, manufacturing, infrastructure and other industries were gradually released. Yet, Indian economy depended heavily on consumption. In a short period of time, the national consumption capacity was completely shut down. Despite expedited resumption of work, little effect was brought to the economic performance. The PMI index rose slightly in May but was still far below the threshold. In May, India’s unemployment rate remained at a high level of 23.48% compared with 23.52% in April. In Brazil, the industrial production index fell by 17.7% year-on-year. Although it was not as exaggerated as India, they were also quite miserable. Brazil's unemployment rate was also rising, and the highest value recorded recently was of 12.6%. Unsatisfying economic data urged the Brazilian president to call for the return to work at the end of April. India and Brazil were not good at preventing the outbreak in the first place .The hurry to resume work did not actually do much good to the economy. Instead, up to the moment I am writing this, new cases in Brazil and India had hit record highs. The virus continued to swipe across the lands and swallowed lives of innocent people. They were, and still are, losing on both sides of the scale.

If Japan, South Korea, and Europe put their weight on the left side while the U.S put theirs on the right. Then this whole “scale” implication might not even exist for Brazil. Brazil was the most pessimistic among all the countries. Various disadvantages from last year plus the epidemic situation this year lingered their economy at the edge. The President also declared that the economy was approaching its limit. The government had launched continuous stimulus plans. One of which accounted for 2.6% GDP share was already the highest in Latin America area. However, the plans proved of little avail, and economic performance hardly saw a break point.

Things get more fascinating in India. India’s heavy debt accounted for 72.1% of its GDP, similar to the very dilemma that Eurozone was facing. So, there was little room for fiscal policy. No money, no business. Even so, to a limited extent. India still launched a 20 trillion rupee economic stimulus plan to prevent large-scale bankruptcy of enterprises. India even had the nerve to challenge China in border issues by creating a large-scale anti-Chinese sentiment to divert attention; deleting Chinese Apps; smashing Chinese product; they even printed anti-Chinese slogans on clothes which needed to be fabricated at a Chinese factory. Well, there goes only more money for Chinese factories. Isn’t that hilarious. Maybe India was trying to help us all along (just kidding). Under the severe condition of losing both sides of the scale, neither the economy nor pandemic control was handled well. India did do a "great" job at distracting people’s attention.

Now let’s come back on ourselves, If I have started with China, you probably would not feel the difference, but with the above foreshadowing, it is self evident that China has done incredibly well with this situation
China’s main focus was on the pandemic control. The epidemic prevention result can be seen in this China vs. US comparison chart. When our citizens were walking out of their house for fresh air, Americans were still stuck at home because of the "wildfire". What’s more “unbelievable” was: while gradually returning to work, we also handled the right side pretty well. The manufacturing PMI was recorded of 50.6 in May, surpassing the threshold for three consecutive months. The industrial production PMI was recorded 53.2, way up high above the par. Manufacturing production was not only resumed but also experienced continuous improvements. Meanwhile, the industrial value-added in May increased by 4.4% year-on-year. Although the speed of recovery slowed down, it still rebounded to the level before the outbreak. Looking at employment, we can see from the picture that the cumulative decrease in the number of new jobs in cities and towns decreased in May, but looking at CPI and PPI growth of May, inflation had accelerated downward. On the one hand, approaching the success of outbreak control, the speed of expansion of supply exceeded the demand persistently. On the other hand, let’s look at a specific topic—Pork. I used to talk about how pork prices remained at a high level. Now production capacity had risen, supply was increasing while consumption was insufficient. Pork prices had finally dropped significantly (see picture). I have mentioned pork for countless times in my previous videos. Don’t be ashamed by this topic that reveals something crucial to our economy. Macro researcher or analyst of many foreign-funded houses always act as if “no one knows China better than me." Just discuss this pork price thing with them to find out if they really know about China. Let's look at the Total Retail Sales of Consumer Goods of May, although it decreased by 2.8% year-on-year, but it can be seen that production was gradually recovering, and the decline has narrowed significantly. For foreign trade, the differentiation was obvious. Imports were weak, but exports rebound strongly. Export mainly relied on the surge in export of anti-epidemic supplies in May. Moreover, overseas resumption of work was weaker than that of my country, and China’s supply had a complementary role to the whole world. In general, “Supply over demand, industry over services, export over import” was the lead. The overall recovery has exceeded expectations.

When we look at the stimulus plan of different countries, the United States and Japan had the most intense ones. Followed by the Eurozone, emerging economies such as India and Brazil were too weak to make an effort. Some people even relied on inciting populism. Even though all the policies seemed to be complicated. There is only one rule in my opinion—put off as long as possible. Just don't die before the dawn. The corporate sector is the core of every economy. Even if layoffs and pay cuts happened, as long as the core is still holding on. As long as the framework of the labor force is there, there will always be a stock for work position. Those will be filled after the resumption and the release of workforce. If the government sit back and let the outbreak strike. Large amount of corporate sector bankruptcy will hurt the basic framework of the economy. The cost of re-incubate and develop a core framework is too large and take too much time. It’s better to keep the original frame and replace the screws. Our country promoted the financial system to make reasonable profits to the corporate sector. The core concept was to ensure employment through protecting the enterprises. If the frame broke to form a scale effect, we will enter the vicious circle that I mentioned in Chapter 5 about the Japanese economic crisis. Deflation could happen. The stimulus policies of various countries were epic compared to before.

In addition to the choices made on the scale. There is one more thing we can agree on: the economic landscape in the post-epidemic era will change. Nowadays, it is difficult to have a large-scale war. The epidemic may be an important promoter that can change the economic landscape in recent decades. The formation and reorganization cycle of the global industrial chain is extremely long. Structural changes are even more difficult. The emergence of the pandemic has created opportunities for a number of specific industries and the opportunity cost for industry chain changes have decreased considerably. In the long run, China’s position in global industrial chain move upward.

Firstly, the time advantage was in our hand for being able to reboot economy early. Chinese supply chain’s rapid recover started to export goods throughout the world and finally reaching the height of filling the gaps in the global industrial chain. Secondly, in the future when facing the emergency, multi-national corporations will consider not only the cost and benefit of the market in the global layout but also focus more on the efficiency and capability of the local governments when dealing with emergencies. Thirdly, the global economic depression under pandemic and the collapse of the emerging market countries have inhibited the industrial chain’s transition from China to other emerging markets.

Fourth, like I just said, the aim of the economic boost to help enterprises to get through the darkness before dawn. Giving them money directly was surely feasible, but if they cannot make money themselves, they will die eventually. In order to profit, the enterprises needed both international and domestic business. Somebody has to buy their stuff. So, rather than handing out money, stimulating consumption is the right way to boost economy. That’s why all the provinces and cities are handing out coupons and the scale and numbers are increasing according to chart. These can all be seen as a part of financial stimulation. Stimulating businesses from the consumer end, thus protecting jobs and the steady employment rate is giving people faith, thus we can come back to a positive-sum game. According to Brooking’s prediction, the revitalization of China’s consumption is foreseeable; the spending power of Chinese middle class will become number one globally. The figure is 16% now and will increase to 22% by 2030. Besides, abiding the basic principle of “in China, for China,” a large market will also reverse the supply chain transition from its essence, enforcing us to be the global center of supply chain.

Fifth, up to now, people’s income and employment have been hit by the pandemic causing Chinese consumers to be more rational. In selection of brands, the impression towards domestic products has risen. The need and discussion for domestic products have also risen in multiple industries. According to the data provided by iiMedia Research, comparison was made between Chinese and foreign products. Chinese products are obviously taking more space in the market. Enough of the macroscopic economic performance and Chinese opportunity. Let’s get down to something more detail, here’s some of the industries and influences I personally found interesting. Remember the previous point about people’s impression on domestic commerce. This is based on facts and data. Take liquor and cosmetics industries for example. First, liquor. Look at this chart. Production of beer in China has bottomed out three months ago, YoY growth also continued to climb with an increase of 14.60% in May, and still increasing rapidly. Meanwhile, China's beer imports have been hovering at a low level in May and have fallen by 9.15% year-on-year. The unit importing price of beer also fell by 5.26%. On the one hand, the improvement of domestic beer is due to the time difference of China's global epidemic. On the other hand, the blocking of other entertainment activities urged people to purchase more beer. Moreover, the increasingly rational consumers and the absence of nightlife transferred some of the high-end booze consumption into beer. Lastly, the catering industry on the demand side is resuming one after another. This revitalization is benefiting the whole industry. It basically caught the wind of this pandemic and it reflected the gradual change of people’s consumption concept.

In addition, the cosmetic industry has shown strong potential and resilience. Although been hit during the pandemic, according to Deloitte’s “China Beauty Industry Report 2020.” Look at this graph. Due to factors such as consumption shifting from offline to online, online cosmetics sales rose against the odds in March and April when the epidemic was quite serious. What we can see is that, sales of lip makeup products in March increased by 143% compared with February, this is more than doubled. Lip makeup was also the fastest growing type of cosmetics. Lipstick effect is really coming true…From a macroscopic perspective, let’s compare the retail of cosmetics to the whole market. Compared with large consumption, the retail sales of cosmetics increased faster than the previous year. Since the epidemic favored the online platform, social media influencer/KOL marketing was also flourishing. Coupled with Chinese consumer’s emphasis on cost performance and the maturity of the domestic cosmetics supply chain. Domestic products are flourishing in the online market. From the picture it is obvious that the retail of Chinese products and foreign ones were of great difference during the pandemic. If it was a tie before the pandemic, then the domestic market is significantly ahead now, but more interestingly, at this post-pandemic time characteristics of cosmetics consumer groups are also changing under the radar. By age, young people around 18-24 is the main consumer of foreign brands. In comparison, a large portion of consumers aged around 24-30 favor domestic brands while consumer aged above 30 don’t tend to have a preference. By demographic structures, domestic and foreign products are splitting the sinking market and the first/second tier cities even. The phenomenon of sinking market mainly consume domestic brands does not appear. On the contrary, first/second tier city consumers are rather spending a lot more on domestic brands. The statistics of different income group also show that high-income people tend to spend more on domestic products than lower income groups.

Furthermore, luxury brands have also been making moves during the pandemic. Their products are still freaking expensive, and many luxury brands even raised product prices during the outbreak due to rising costs. According to DT financial, after comparing the increase in price of main products from LV, Dior and Chanel. Among the main products, the increase in price before and after the pandemic was between 5% and 25%. Some brands have even adjusted their price three times. The price differences in luxury industry are delicately balanced. I’ve talked about the “chain of contempt” in luxury brands. It is difficult for a brand-based “chain of contempt” to undergo structural subversion. Major brands also possess the traditional tactic of price adjustment following the trend. Since the retail in the post-pandemic time is not looking good, they sure want certain groups to buy more by increasing their price. I will dig into it in another episode. It’s rather funny to look at luxury industry from a research standpoint. The way luxury industry operates is often against that of traditional industry. Supply and need means less than human nature in this case. Despite that the post-pandemic luxury industry is influencing us, or say, “certain” groups of people. The spread of the epidemic led to the return of tax-free consumption. Continued overseas quarantine had result in a sudden drop in the number of domestic flights to and from Japan, South Korea and Europe. Mainland residents are also demanded to be quarantined enter/leave Hong Kong. The duty free shops at the border and international e-commerce have been affected by this. Thus, the demand for luxury products have shifted to domestic sellers which favored the duty free policy and the recent travel-shopping policy in Hainan. Ecommerce sellers sure have a lot of business to make.

It is foreseeable that the commercial chain dispersion will be affected. The leasing market is also going through an interesting change, take Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, Shenzhen as examples. According to the graph, the rent went up once before the pandemic. Yet, in the post-pandemic time, the pandemic’s influence on employment plus the lockdown are causing a declining population inflow, leading to shrinking demand for rental housing in first-tier cities. Especially in June, which as supposed to be at its high because of graduation, the leasing price is instead going down in these four cities. The average decline in price in Shenzhen was most obviously. Leasing apartments and their customers are negotiating about a price drop. Some long-term apartments even stopped their contracts. However, in the standpoint of a Beijing landlord, the degree of price reduction varies region by region. The expensive places are still expensive, but the old and dirty neighborhoods are having a hard time. I predict that the rental price in major cities is going to bounce back even harder and more extensive than that of last year.

What’s more, auto industry provides us with a change worth thinking about according to the statistics of auto sales. Class C car sales are recovering notably faster than that of Class A cars according to chart. The picture on the right has more direct information, in this post-pandemic stage. Auto cars priced at 300k and above increased by 38% YoY but that of lower than 300k decreased by 0.9%. High-end car sales are recovering way faster than low-end cars. The reason is simple, the recovery speed of high-end consumer is significantly faster. This means that during this pandemic, low and middle-income groups were more affected than high-net-worth people. Considering the possibility that the gap between rich and poor would increase, no matter from a macroscopic or personal standpoint, I don’t think that this is optimistic.

Last but not least, international student/people studying abroad are having a hard time. TOEFL and IELTS tests were suspended and people are having trouble with reentry to schools caused by the uncertain outbreak situation overseas. Some families are inclining towards taking a gap or postpone the enrollment and the business of language training institutions and prep schools is obviously affected. Offline business revenue has dropped significantly. Some institutions are already considering the sluggish market created by the pandemic and the increase in students’ barriers to admission thus lowering the threshold and increase the admission rate. The number of Chinese students admitted to certain art colleges has increased by 4 times compared with previous years. When the outbreak gets better in the future, schools around the globe could lower the standards more for more applicants, to make amends to the loss this year. Nevertheless, applicants next year may increase as well as the quota. On the one hand, considering the stranded condition this year. On the other hand, from a personal perspective, under the severe employment situation, studying abroad is still a good deal for supplement. So, don’t hesitate!!!


From the conditions and changes of several industries discussed above, it is clear that most industries are recovering through different paths and domestic market and products are flourishing. However, beware that some hot headed people are believing China is going to be the only one that survive due to everyone else’s failures, and there are even people trying to commercialize it, or use it as a propaganda campaign. Those who followed me know what I would say about his: pragmatic, callous and objective. We are facing challenges while embracing opportunities.

First, the virus might strike back, therefore risk aversion in the market still remain

Second, due to the epidemic, China faces insufficient demand in the short term. Long-term weak external demand, sluggish trade and demand may impact domestic employment.

Thirdly, the impact of this epidemic centered at industries such as manufacturing, wholesale and retail, accommodation and catering, etc. where low-income groups were relatively dense. Residents' distributable income was further differentiated, and the gap between rich and poor may increase.

Fourth, the acceleration of counter-globalization in the post-epidemic era hinders China from taking the opportunity of shortcuts to make a progress in the industry chain. Enterprises participating in the global industrial chain can optimize allocation and reduce costs, but once an emergency event such as the outbreak happen, the production must be shut down. Enterprises must balance between cost, efficiency and risk. At the national level, economic competition attaches importance to production efficiency. The use of the global industrial chain contributes to high efficiency, but the deeper the involvement, the higher the dependence on other countries and the more restricted it becomes. Therefore, all the nations began to pay attention to self-dependency, the localization and protectionism of lifeline industries in various countries will increase for sure.

Let’s do a small rewind of this whole reboot process. Westerners have ignored the pandemic, turned a blind eye to it at the beginning. Later to where they had to imitate our measures and angrily cried out “Chinese virus.” China’s virtually perfect action and procedure gave the world a lesson. After going through all the stages of epidemic prevention from different countries and looking at the specific operations of countries around the world. They were all just Ctrl C and Ctrl V aren’t they? Although methods could be borrowed, but to be the model for the world; prizing up the global economic landscape and bring industry chain into the play; this template of the Chinese economy cannot be copied. In this fight, each country was like a doctor performing a precise operation, competing against each other on economic and industrial stability, administrative efficiency and national willpower. At the end of the day, it all comes down to the question: who would be the ones that works harder and smarter?

Rumor about China’s economic collapse has existed for so long. The trade war has been fought so long. China is not only still going strong but also accomplishing a nice counter. In this “surgery” of precision, not to say that we have done a good job, but comparing to the other side of the pacific, which is strangled in distress and thorns, we have demonstrated a higher level of administrative efficiency and management skills. Just like the nation and its people. No matter how much up and downs we have been through, no forbearance and accumulation will be in vein because diamonds are only forged in the burning flame.

Capital never slumber, C U





You will very quickly learn while on paid jobs that explaining something clearly, empowering others, and helping people go beyond what they think their limits are is an acquired skill that is deeply valued, and hence, compensated. 